Well, if you really, really need a pointer out of the user-space.
So even in your implementation you may have
a raw pointer but then you have to do everything basic.
The most basic smart pointer is known as unique pointer,
it's a pointer that I own the object at the other end.
So if I have it when this pointer goes out of scope,
the object gets deleted.
So it's very easy I hold on to it with that unique pointer,
if I give it to you now you have it.
If you go out of scope it will be deleted immediately.
If it was raw pointers we would have to
have an agreement about who's going to do the delete.
But if I give you a unique pointer,
I transfer ownership implicitly.
The most popular and probably too popular smart pointer in C++ is the share pointer.
It's the one were you don't know who owns it.
So I can give you my share pointer,
I give you one, give him one,
and the last one to stop using it will implicitly delete the object.
So it's a form of garbage collection,
it's much as what is done in several other languages Swift,
Python and such, except that it works for anything.
This objects can hold locks and file handles and things like that,
it's not just memory, it's resource management.
But currently they got very popular after C++ 11,
when people still used a lot of pointers and got into trouble with
the resource management and share pointers get them out or most of them.
But it's even better to use local objects mostly.